# Goals

- What are JavaScript libraries and how to use them
- Now that we've taken a look at the fundamentals of the Web (HTML & CSS), let's build on our understanding by looking at some libraries that provide us with useful abstractions. However, be sure to go back and brush up on the reading for JavaScript from the first session.

# Reading

### jQuery
- Read: [jQuery Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/Jquery/default.asp) - jQuery is one of the most widely used JavaScript libraries out there. Like you've probably heard by now, we use JavaScript to give web pages interactivity. However, JavaScript in its purest form is an old language at this point. And, like all language, things evolve over time. In the case of JavaScript, some clever people over the years have figured out ingenious ways of creating abstractions around plain old JavaScript. As a result, most developers working with JavaScript nowadays will actually use something like jQuery in order to boost productivity and leverage powerful features without needing to be too verbose. That is the power of using libraries. It's important to remember, however, that jQuery and its kin are just wrappers and that at the end of the day, the browser that recieves our code will ultimately still be parsing pure JavaScript. This link is a wonderful introduction to jQuery and will give you a solid foundation for how this powerful little library works. As you work through the various sections, make sure to click the 'Try it yourself' to occasionally interact with the code.

### The DOM
- Read: [What is the DOM?](https://css-tricks.com/dom/) - This is a short but informative article that helps explain what the browser does when it interprets your HTML and CSS code. Recall how I asked you to inspect your code via the Google Chrome inspector tool? Well, what you were inspecting was the parsed version of the code. In fact, when you're utilizing JavaScript / jQuery to create interactive elements on your webpage, you're interacting with the DOM. That's the parsed version of the HTML that the browser makes available to us when, for example, we want to start selecting and doing things to elements in JavaScript.

# Exercise

Set up a local environment (a folder with an index.html file in it) that includes some valid HTML and CSS code in it. The goal is to code a primitive splash page using what you learned in class during section 1.

# Post-Class Updates
- [The live version of Go Places Inc. (Session 2)](https://meinstein.github.io/swlaw/session_2/index.html) - This the live version of the app after applying all that we learned from session 2. It includes a submit button, which takes the text from the input element and logs it into the console (so be sure to have your console open!)
- [The Code for Go Places Inc. (Session 2)](https://github.com/meinstein/swlaw/tree/master/session_2) - This link will take you to a folder that contains an **index.html** file (HTML), a **styles.css** file (CSS) and a **script.js** file (JavaScript / jQuery). This is different than the link I shared for Go Places Inc. after our first session. In this case, we have placed the three languages (HTML/CSS/JavaScript) into distinct files in order to create a clear separation of concerns in our code base. The CSS and JavaScript are now imported into our index.html file, which as before, still serves as the 'root' of our webpage. The index.html file is the first thing a browser will look for and start parsing. The browser does this in a top-to-bottom synchronous fashion. That means that as it encounters import statements, it will stop parsing the HTML and reach out to the CSS and/or JavaScript in order to include those contents. Lastly, as you examine all the code herein, pay special attention to my annotations in script.js. I've outlined, step by step, how to write our JavaScript logic from class today using jQuery. I think you will gain a great deal from working slowly and digesting my notes as you go. Also supplement any confusing material with Google (or email me!).
