# Overview

### The goal for the coding portion of this course will be for each group to create a splash page to represent its startup. The page will need to communicate the purpose of the startup and provide a mechanism for visitors to register their interest. You will be writing the code for your websites using the languages and frameworks widely adopted by startups nowadays.

### This portion of the course will be taught in a workshop style. It is expected that you read the material in advance of each class and come prepared to apply what you have learned during group based coding exercises. Pair-programming is an excellent technique for programmers of all levels and it is one that we will rely heavily throughout the course.

# Final Projects
- __Option 1__: Using only HTML & CSS to build your splash page. You can accomplish a great deal and build a very elegant presentation site using only these two technologies. This is essentially what we did during our first session together. The greatest challenge will be fiddling with CSS in order to style all your HTML elements to your desire.

- __Option 2__: Using HTML & CSS & JavaScript/jQuery to build your splash page. The only difference with Option 1 is that you will have the benefit of adding some interactive elements to your page. This could include, for example, the ability to animate elements on the page.

- __Option 3__: Using HTML & CSS & JavaScript/jQuery & Node/Express to build your splash page. The difference here is that you'll be able send data to a server, which gives you the freedom to persist user data that is submitted on your splash page's inputs. However, you could just easily provide users with an email address and anticipate that they'll email you directly.

- __Option 4__: Using a website builder service such as Squarespace, Wix, Weebly, or Wordpress. There's a multitude of these services out there. These are great for building a splash page, as most of their templates are tailored for this type of site. As far as I know, these services typically give users the opportunity to customize templates using HTML and CSS, which you will now have a leg-up on.

# Contact
### Max Einstein
### __maximillianeinstein@gmail.com__
